# Quick Start

To run an example fit, get the example datasets by cloning this repo:

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/hftsoi/symbolfit.git
cd symbolfit
```

Then within a python session (or simply do `python fit_example.py`):

``` python
from symbolfit.symbolfit import *

dataset = importlib.import_module('examples.datasets.toy_dataset_1.dataset')
pysr_config = importlib.import_module('examples.pysr_configs.pysr_config_gauss').pysr_config

model = SymbolFit(
        x = dataset.x,
        y = dataset.y,
        y_up = dataset.y_up,
        y_down = dataset.y_down,
        pysr_config = pysr_config,
        max_complexity = 60,
        input_rescale = True,
        scale_y_by = 'mean',
        max_stderr = 20,
        fit_y_unc = True,
        random_seed = None,
        loss_weights = None
)

model.fit()
```

After the fit, save results to csv files:

``` python
model.save_to_csv(output_dir = 'output_dir/')
```

and plot results to pdf files:

``` python
model.plot_to_pdf(
        output_dir = 'output_dir/',
        bin_widths_1d = dataset.bin_widths_1d,
        plot_logy = False,
        plot_logx = False,
        sampling_95quantile = False,
        #bin_edges_2d = dataset.bin_edges_2d,
        #plot_logx0 = False,
        #plot_logx1 = False,
        #cbar_min = None,
        #cbar_max = None,
        #cmap = None,
        #contour = None,
        # ^ additional options for 2D plotting
)
```

Candidate functions with full substitutions can be printed promptly:

``` python
model.print_candidate(candidate_number = 20)
```

Each fit will produce a batch of candidate functions and will
automatically save all results to six output files:

-   `candidates.csv`: saves all candidate functions and evaluations in a
    csv table.
-   `candidates_compact.csv`: saves a reduced version for essential
    information without intermediate results.
-   `candidates.pdf`: plots all candidate functions (1D/2D only for now)
    with associated uncertainties one by one for fit quality evaluation.
-   `candidates_sampling.pdf`: plots all candidate functions (1D only
    for now) with total uncertainty coverage generated by sampling
    parameters.
-   `candidates_gof.pdf`: plots the goodness-of-fit scores.
-   `candidates_correlation.pdf`: plots the correlation matrices for the
    parameters of the candidate functions.

!!! note
    The function space is usually huge, even when constrained by the pysr
    config. This means that if you are not satisfied with the results from a
    fit, you can simply rerun it with the exact same config and obtain a
    completely different set of candidate functions-the only difference
    being the random seed that initiates the seeding functions. Therefore,
    you can rerun the fit as many times as you want until you are satisfied
    with the results. If you use
    `model = SymbolFit(..., random_seed = None, ...)`, nothing needs to be
    changed-just rerun the fit. If you set a specific `random_seed`, change
    its value before rerunning. However, if you are still not satisfied with
    the results after many trials, it might indicate an issue with the
    config. Then you might want to try a different config, tune it, and
    start new runs.

Output files from an example fit can be found and downloaded
[here](https://github.com/hftsoi/symbolfit/tree/main/docs/demo/output_dir/toy_dataset_1)
for illustration.
